(dramatic music)
Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
(gun popping)
- [Joseph] I'm General
Joseph Wheeler.
Confederate States of America.
What you're looking at
here is Savannah River.
That's the line between
Georgia and South Carolina.
It's a pretty good-sized river.
We thought it'd keep the
Yanks on the Georgia side.
at least until I could muster
up my cavalry together.
But it was a hell
of a lot of Yanks.
and they had everything they
needed to cause us trouble.
- Begging your pardon. General.
We received word that
Kilpatrick and his men
have crossed the
to Savannah River.
- Is this 100%
- Yes. it is. General.
- We may be able
to fall back again.
regroup a little better.
- No. we can't keep doing that.
- What would you
like us to do. sir?
- We'll make a stand
at Broxton's Bridge.
(water lapping)
(insects chirping)
- What's your report. Major?
- Everyone we need is
across the river. sir.
- Finally. It only
took two days.
- That's quite an ordeal. sir.
We're talking 60.000 troops.
- What's the scout's report
and the enemy disposition?
- Well. they're
mainly scattered.
but they're coming together
at Broxton Bridge. sir.
- What type of troops are they?
- Some solid artillery
but mainly cavalry.
- Ah. cavalry. That'd
be Joe Wheeler?
- That would be correct. sir.
- My old friend.
Well. maybe this time
I'll get a chance to put
a bullet through his skull.
- Well. that'd be
a fine day. sir.
But what else do you
need from me. sir?
- Who's the best scout you got?
- That would be Masterson. sir.
- All right. I want
a meeting with him.
you. and me and that's
it. you understand?
- Yes. sir.
- All right. carry on.
(water lapping)
(dramatic music)
(water splashing)
(people shouting)
(guns popping)
- Right here!
- Let's go!
(upbeat whistling music)
(dramatic music)
- Take cover. take cover!
(cannons blasting)
(dramatic music)
(guns popping)
(people shouting)
(cannon blasts)
- Fire!
(dramatic music)
(water lapping)
- Masterson. Maddox says you're
the best scout we've got.
- I can find my way around
here pretty good. sir.
- Excellent. What I need
is good intelligence.
real information about
General Wheeler's whereabouts.
you understand?
- Yes. sir. I imagine he's
with his troops right now.
- He could be with them.
he could be one of them.
He's a slippery son of a bitch.
He's like a snake in
the grass. Wheeler is.
You stomp on him.
you lift your boot.
and he's not there anymore.
Him and his troops.
they just slither away.
- So he could be anywhere.
- Well. he has to maintain
command of his troops.
They're an army of
ghosts. vanished into dust
right outside of Atlanta.
and here they are.
- So. do I get a bonus if
I take care of business?
- Well. it depends on
what you mean by business.
- Well. you want
Wheeler dead. right?
- Yes. I do want Wheeler dead.
And if you can arrange that.
you'll be very well taken
care of financially.
(dramatic music)
- I'm looking for Mama Thorn.
- Well. this is her swamp.
- Better watch out
around that swamp.
That old swamp witch'll get you.
- This ain't her place. is it?
- Oh. no. Her place
ain't so grandiose.
- That's who the
general wants to see.
- OK. when we get
close. y'all hold back.
She don't like a whole
lot of people. now.
- Come on in. Joe.
- Mama Thorn.
- Been a piece since your
last visit. What news you got?
- Yanks have crossed
the Savannah River.
- That I knew.
- They're heading this way.
- That I didn't know.
How long you figure
'fore they get here?
- Well. they brought what they
needed to cross the Savannah
to River. Swamp might
slow them down a bit.
- My swamp will slow
them down a lot.
Water's cold this time of
year. At least a day or two.
- If that. You
gonna hightail it?
- I been here a long time.
Why should I leave now?
- These boys. they
ain't so friendly.
- I've seen plenty
of soldiers before.
- These are different.
All the way up the line.
- What do you mean?
- I know their cavalry
commander from way back.
- Who's he?
- Name's Kilpatrick. We
went to West Point together.
- Sounds like an Irishman.
I can handle an Irishman.
- Kilpatrick only
answers to one person.
- Sherman.
- Both of these men are
rough on local folks.
- So they're punishing the
people that ain't even fighting.
- That's right. And
you need to be careful.
- I ain't worried
about these Yanks.
You suppose they'll be
asking your whereabouts?
- Probably.
- How 'bout if I send them
to your family cemetery?
- I just may have to pay my
respects after the battle.
- You just might.
(birds chirping)
- Is there anything else you
think you will be requiring?
- Yes. Be sure the men
have plenty of matches.
I know we lost a lot
when they got wet
when we were crossing
the uh. swamps.
- Yes sir. but please
remember we did purchase
every matchstick in Savannah.
- I know. I know.
Just make sure.
- Yes. sir.
- And uh. have we heard from
the scout yet. Masterson?
- Nothing concrete.
However. his reports do confirm
our earlier intelligence
that the rebel
cavalry is scattered.
and heading in the general
direction of Aiken.
- Is there anything else?
I have ladies waiting.
- One thing. sir. we
are approaching the
town of Barnwell.
and it seems a number
of clergy and merchants
wish to hold a meeting with you.
- Oh. God. All right.
uh. one meeting though.
Narrow it down.
I want to meet with one person.
somebody from the clergy.
no merchants. all right.
Two minutes.
One person. one meeting.
two minutes. Understand?
- Yes. sir. Thank you. sir.
- Very well.
- My name is Hugh
Judson Kilpatrick.
My highest to rank
was Major General.
and that's of course
in the real army.
which would be the army of
the United States of America.
I've been called ambitious.
aggressive. and blustery.
I must say I agree
on all counts.
I have also been
called fearless.
And that is how I
hope I am remembered.
- Rumor has it Wheeler
is really really close.
- There's always a
rumor. Major Maddox.
What I'm interested in
is what our men have
actually laid their eyes on.
- I've got Masterson on his
trail. Best scout we have.
- That man is a bloodhound.
I'll give you that.
- That's the kind
of man we need.
- Who the hell is this?
- Who are you? What's
your business here?
- I don't mean to
make no trouble.
I know you two
fellas are very busy.
- Come closer.
please. and speak up.
- That's as far as you go.
Don't have any weapons
on you. do you?
- No. sir. I'm Reverend Fuller.
My congregation is the
Independent Baptist Church
of Barnwell. South Carolina.
- Why does that ring
a bell? Barnwell?
- It's right in the middle
of our path to Aiken.
- What's your business
with us. Reverend?
- General. Major.
when's the last time
you gentlemen went to church?
- It's been quite
some time. Reverend.
- Well if you should happen
to pass through Barnwell.
I'd like to invite you
to services at my church.
The services would be at
your convenience. of course.
- Really? Well. that would
certainly be a change of pace.
What do you think. Captain?
- Is that why you're
here. Reverend?
To ask us to go to church?
- That is correct.
Your presence would show the
good people of South Carolina
that you and your men would
like to have a peaceful
end to this terrible conflict.
- That's not the only
reason you're here.
or it's not the primary
Why don't you tell
us what that is?
- I heard tell of you
fellers burning through
a lot of places. especially
since you crossed the river.
- Reverend. we burn
any structure that
harbors resistance.
Those are our orders.
- As such. I figured if you
attended services at my church.
that you would see that
we harbored no resistance
and our doors are
always open to any
that would love to
worship. black or white.
- Well. I don't know if we'll
make the services or not.
Reverend. but I
will tell you this.
If we have to burn
structures in Barnwell.
we will not burn the
Independent Baptist Church.
- Feels awful good to hear that.
Our little church started
in a one room shack
about 10 years ago.
We recently fixed it
up. added on a bit.
added a little
small cross tower.
It isn't much. but
we're proud of it.
and it would really
calm my nerves
to get your personal
guarantee on this. General.
- Reverend. you have
my personal guarantee.
- Thank you.
Gentlemen. I sincerely
appreciate your
time this evening.
- Spare the man's church.
- Hell no. Burn the whole town.
- Copeland.
- Sir.
- You notice some of
the men had new gear.
- Yes. sir.
There's a new supplier in town.
and he's quite pleased
to take our money.
- That's rare these days.
- Well. actually he
was looking for you.
- Was he now? What business
did he have for me?
- Don't know. He only wanted
to discuss it with you.
- Okay then. You been scouting?
- As you ordered. sir.
- What'd you find
out about Kilpatrick?
- He's definitely on the
move as you thought. but-
- But what?
- He doesn't appear to be
moving directly to Augusta.
- Where then?
- Maybe. maybe Aiken.
- Aiken? Why Aiken?
- Not figuring
that one out. sir.
- Huh. Augusta would make sense.
- Yes. sir. with the
powder works and all.
- Yeah. Columbia's Columbia.
- What do you think
we should do. sir?
- Headed for Aiken? That means
he's going to hit Barnwell.
- Yes. sir. right through it.
- Lordy. I got
good friends there.
- Well. we can throw
some troops that way.
- No. we got a good
chance here at something.
- All right.
- Well. for every man you got.
we're gonna make
a stand in Aiken.
(fire crackling)
(dramatic music)
- Boys. the name of
this town is Barnwell.
but tonight it's Burnwell!
- Yeah! Burnwell.
Burnwell. Burnwell.
Burnwell. Burnwell. Burnwell.
Burnwell. Burnwell. Burnwell!
- Burn it to the ground. boys!
- Yeah! Burnwell.
Burnwell. Burnwell.
Burnwell. Burnwell. Burnwell.
Burnwell. Burnwell. Burnwell!
(somber music)
- They promised. They promised
they wouldn't burn it.
- I'm sorry. Come. my friend.
- Who's that sneaking
around my door?
- A friend.
- I can tell when a
friend's at my door.
- I didn't mean to
cause no interruption.
I don't have a gun if that's
what you're worried about.
- What I'm worried
about is you don't want
to tell me who you are.
- Name's Masterson.
Just want to talk.
- Then come on in and talk.
- So you're the one
they call Mama Thorn.
- That's right.
- So you fancy yourself
some type of witch.
- I know what I am. Swamp witch.
Most dangerous kind there is.
- I guess I better
be careful then.
- Finally a piece of
fine thinking out of you.
You do know I charge
for my services.
- You mean for soothsaying?
I guess that's not out of line.
So what kind of payment
are you looking for?
- How about some truth?
- Truth?
- Truth. I've had enough
of lying and double talk.
- The truth can be
a very thorny place.
It can tear you up.
- Is that some kind of threat?
- No. ma'am. I'm just
here to ask questions.
- So ask.
- Well. you were
kind of hard to find.
- That ain't no question.
And I ain't hard to find
for those who are
supposed to find me.
- Well. I am aware
that General Wheeler
has been here to see you.
- I see a lot of folks.
- Not a lot of generals.
- You'd be surprised.
- So what. what did you and
fighting Joe have to talk about?
- Mister. I have no reason
at all to tell you about
my private conversations.
- What about self-preservation?
- Now that is a threat.
- Not from me.
- Then from who?
- I'll tell you what.
You answer my questions.
I'll answer yours.
- You like playing
this game. Masterson.
- Sure. if it pays off. And you?
- I can be very.
very good at it.
- I got money. United
States currency.
Not that funny money
that they're trying
to pass off down here.
- Ain't interested.
- So can I give to you
to get what I want?
- Masterson. there is absolutely
nothing you can offer me
that would make me
betray a good friend.
- You're making a mistake.
- I know what I'm doing.
You go back and report
now to General Kilpatrick.
- The next visit
won't be from me.
And I bet it's not as friendly.
- Whoa. whoa. whoa. whoa.
whoa. whoa. whoa. Reverend.
- Hey. Joe. Dobbs.
- Good to see you alive.
Heard there's nothing
left of Barnwell.
- Sorry about your
church. Reverend.
- That was my life.
- Well. this is in the middle
of nowhere. Did you walk here?
- I did. I walked until
I couldn't walk anymore.
I don't know how long I
been sitting on these steps
but I think I'll find me a
peaceful grove somewhere.
lay down and let the
earth take me back.
- I got an idea.
After the battle.
I'll take a platoon
and go and rebuild
his church for him.
- What now? What
about the Yanks?
They'd be all over.
- That ain't what I been seeing.
They come in. tear
up and haul out.
- That's right.
- Y'all know I wouldn't be
able to pay you nothing.
- Hey. I got a young
lass I plan on marrying
when this is all over.
If you could do the honors.
that would be payment enough.
- I know where some nice
timber's being stored.
- That's be fine. gentlemen.
- Is there anything
we can do for you?
Can we send some men
over to give you a hand?
- Maybe some water.
- Corporal. give him some water.
- You ain't invited.
- I'm not alone.
What I'm looking for is
any information you have
against the rebel
general Joseph Wheeler.
- I don't know where
General Wheeler is.
- I need to know. Is he
planning on attacking us?
And what is his troop strength?
- I ain't no soldier. Why would
I know nonsense like that?
- Then what do you talk about?
- Healings for his wounded.
Getting messages to their
families. Important things.
- Ma'am. I have
food. Plenty of food.
- I got the forest
and the swamp.
I can get all the food I need.
- Fine. We have U.S.
currency. silver.
We'd pay a good bit if you'd
show me the whereabouts
of General Wheeler.
- Ain't interested.
- You need to be telling
me what you know.
- I can't tell you
what I don't know.
and I don't know where
General Wheeler is right now.
- Don't move.
- Mama Thorn. I'm
General Hugh Kilpatrick.
It's a pleasure to
make your acquaintance.
- You and your men
ain't welcome here.
- Mama Thorn. we've got
something to discuss. ma'am.
Do you believe in the
institution of slavery?
Do you believe that human
beings should be chained up
and traded like cattle?
- No. I do not.
- Well. good. We have
something in common. then.
Now our great army
has swept through
most of this
so-called Confederacy.
and do you know what
we've left in our wake
everywhere we've gone?
- Burned buildings
and ruined land.
- Freedom. Mama Thorn.
Now I've freed slaves
in Tennessee. Georgia.
and now South Carolina.
We are not the enemy.
- You are taking the crops
and belongings of poor people.
people who work
hard for a living.
These ain't the rich
folk who owned slaves.
- War is a cruel and
heartless endeavor. ma'am.
- You're making war on children.
What you leave in your
wake are children.
with nothing to eat.
nowhere to sleep in the
dead of winter.
- This is a war
that was brought on
by an illegal government.
an illegal government
supported by people like you.
- I don't support no government.
and I don't support no war.
I support the people.
- Well. I believe this building
is harboring rebel resistance.
So we're leaving. and
I'm gonna have my men
nail the windows
and the doors shut.
and set fire to this
place with you in it.
And if you don't
think I'll do it.
you better remember
what I have done.
Let's go.
- General Kill.
Everybody knows that Joe
Wheeler is getting ready
for some big battle.
I don't know nothing about that.
But I'm pretty sure that
when the fighting's over.
no matter what happens.
he's gonna want to go
to his family cemetery.
That's just down the road
from his home in Augusta.
That'll be after the battle.
before he heads out to regroup.
- I'm gonna put
guards on this place.
If what you say is
true. you'll be free.
But if not. I'm gonna burn
everything here to the ground.
Good day. ma'am.
(water rushing)
(birds twittering)
- Hello. Mama Thorn.
- Well. look who's
all soldiered up.
Good to see you again. Marcus.
- I'm liking the
feel of freedom.
- That's good.
You know. when I put someone
on the railroad to Harriet.
I never know if they're
gonna make it or not.
Even I don't know the
routes past South Carolina.
- Things was tough for a while
but I made it up to Boston
and joined the
54th Massachusetts.
- Well. you're taking
a big chance being back
in this neck of the woods.
Rebel army ain't
taking no prisoners
when it comes to ex-slaves.
I hear they're
shooting them on sight.
- I heard the same thing.
That's why I'm fighting.
- But you made it back. just
like you said you would.
- I almost didn't. I was
up around Charleston.
Lost a lot of boys.
- Got any plans
for after the war?
- I want to see if I can
find any of my family.
- You know. your
brother got sold
before I could put
him on the railroad.
- I heard.
- Try looking for
him in Augusta.
You know. a lot of
these black folk there.
they don't know
they're free yet.
- I'll be sure to tell them.
- You want some food?
- I wish I could stay 'cause
I'm tired of eating army grub.
- How much time you got?
- Not much. They're probably
wondering where I'm at.
- Well. Marcus. you always
made my neck of the woods
a better place by being here.
Take care of yourself.
Hope I'll see you again.
- Mama Thorn.
(dramatic music)
- Fancy seeing you
here. Mama Thorn.
- Yep. Them bluecoats
wanted my cabin.
I figured I'd just
let them have it.
- Yeah. I heard.
What you gonna do?
- I'll go wandering a
bit like I always do.
I'm gonna find me
some new roots.
- So? Need to talk
to me about anything?
- I met your opponent.
this Kilpatrick.
- Did you now? What'd
you think of him?
- He likes to shoot
off his mouth a lot.
- Hmmm. Sounds like him.
- He wouldn't stop
barking til I told him
where you were gonna
be after the battle.
- Well. what exactly
did you tell him?
- Exactly what we talked about.
- Well. I do appreciate that.
How do you think
he's gonna handle it?
- He'll send one of his
bullies like he always does.
- Well. I guess I'll be
seeing you around. Mama Thorn.
- Sure as sunrise.
(dramatic music)
- There are those who
would say that a general
shouldn't be taking
advice from um.
those that call
themselves witches.
They said I had no business
associating with folk like that.
Take Mama Thorn for instance.
She'd been around these parts
since before anyone
can remember.
Did I believe in her mumbling
and spells and all that?
Well. I tell you what
I saw with my own eyes.
When we run out of
medicines for our wounded.
some of her potions and lotions.
they kept some of
them boys alive.
She eased a lot of suffering.
(dramatic music)
(light music)
(guns popping)
(people shouting)
(somber music)
(guns popping)
(people shouting)
(dramatic music)
(bright dramatic music)
(guns popping continues)
(somber music)
(guns popping)
(light music)
(people shouting)
(guns popping continues)
(dramatic music)
(people shouting)
(guns popping)
(water lapping)
(birds twittering)
(tense music)
- If I'm dead. you're dead.
- I saw you in here. General.
I just want to make
sure you're all right.
- You got a funny way of
showing it. Holster that weapon.
- Fellas. is this the same
man we been talking about?
- He is.
- You're that broker.
- I am.
(dramatic music)
- I recognize you two.
You don't recognize me?
- Yeah. we recognize you.
- That's far enough.
- Hey. I thought
we knew each other.
- I understand you don't
mind Confederate payment.
- That's right. We
can make a deal.
(guns popping)
(dramatic music)
- Paid in full.
- Have a seat. Colonel.
- Thank you. sir.
- I hope you have
some good news for me.
- I'm sorry. sir. but I
cannot accommodate you
with that today.
- Ah. very well.
Let's. uh. let's get on with it
so we can get out of
this godforsaken place.
- Yes. sir. We received the
communique from General Sherman.
He wants us to begin
our march on Columbia
as soon as possible.
- Well. that's
not terrible news.
It gets us out of this to place.
- Yes. sir.
In regard to General
Sherman. I put in my request
for a transfer
back to his staff.
- Did you now?
- Yes. sir.
- Well. I guess you've had
enough of this front lines. huh?
- Yes. sir. I have
had my fill of it.
- Well. that's all right.
I never thought you had
the sand in your guts
for this anyway on
the front lines.
Being a Quaker and all.
you all have a tough time
developing a thick hide
for the type of warfare
we're involved in now.
- Yes. sir. possibly.
- What about the
scout Masterson?
Have we heard back
anything from him?
- We have not heard
from Mr. Masterson.
but we did hear
about Mr. Masterson.
- Please report. Colonel.
- I'm afraid to inform you.
sir. that Mr. Masterson is dead.
Yes. sir. and as I understand.
he was on assignment
from you in Augusta.
- And what about
Wheeler. General Wheeler?
Is he dead too?
- No. sir. he is not.
- You know. Colonel.
I don't think we lost
this battle here today.
I don't think so.
- Excuse me. sir?
- Against Wheeler's men today.
No. no. I actually think it was
closer to a draw. don't you?
- Sir. they drove us back.
- Yes. but when we get
ready to file our reports
with General Sherman and others.
it's important that you
and I are in agreement
on the outcome of the battle
today. if you get my meaning.
Colonel.
- I will not lie. sir.
- Yes. I understand that.
I don't want you to lie.
But you have to admit. Colonel.
there's a lot of
layers to the truth.
It's just like an onion.
So I'm not asking you to lie.
I'm simply asking you to peel
one layer back for the truth.
- I'm afraid I cannot
comply with that request.
- Well. you will comply.
and it's an order. Colonel.
You wouldn't disobey an
order. would you. Colonel?
- No. sir. I will comply
with your request.
- Very well. then. you
can have your transfer
back to headquarters
where you'll be safe.
Dismissed.
- Sir. permission
to speak freely.
Sir. your comments
about my courage.
I served honorably
in the Mexican War.
I was a medical attendant.
I saw men blown apart in
front of me by cannon fire.
I had their blood on
my clothes for days.
I held men as they
died in my arms crying
for their mothers
or their wives.
I have never forgotten
those experiences. sir.
and I pray God I never do.
- Tell it to the
chaplain. Colonel Peabody.
I just don't care.
Get out of my sight.
Now I know a lot of people
called me and my
boys guerrillas.
They say we didn't fight
like proper soldiers.
But I come to realize this.
most of these complainers
was not from Dixie.
Most of these
complainers were Yanks.
So what this tells me is.
we must have been doing
a pretty good job.
(somber music)
Rebs got lucky in
Aiken. South Carolina.
'specially Wheeler.
I was a victim of
bad intelligence.
Why wasn't I told about the
number of cannon the enemy had?
I was expecting shells from
two. I received a barrage.
And how could the number on
Wheeler's cavalry be so wrong?
I was expecting about 100.
and instead ended up facing
about 1.000 cavalry troops.
On the day of the
battle in Aiken.
the officers that supplied
me that intelligence failed.
It won't happen again.
(somber music)
(upbeat music)
(dramatic music)